Newsletters: add 252 (2023-05-24) (#1121)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-05-24-newsletter.md

    They also have a suboptimal prototype which proves that all
    transaction state changes for the block chain respected the currency
    rules (e.g., how many bitcoins can be created by a new block, that
    each non-coinbase transaction must not create UTXOs with more
    bitcoin value than those it destroys (spends), and that a miner may
    claim any difference between the UTXOs destroyed in a block and
    those created).  A client receiving this proof and a copy of the
    current UTXO set would be able to verify that the set was accurate
    and complete.  They call this an _assumevalid_ proof after the
    [feature in Bitcoin Core][assumevalid] that optionally skips
    verification of scripts for older blocks when many contributors
    agree that their nodes all validated those blocks successfully.

    To minimize the complexity of their proof, they use a version of
    [utreexo][topic utreexo] with a hash function optimized for their
    system.  They separately suggest that combining their proof with a
    utreexo client will allow that client to begin operating as a full
    node almost immediately after downloading a very small amount of
    data.

>     Regarding the usability of their prototytes, they write that "we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Regarding the usability of their prototypes, they write that "we
```

    have implemented the header chain proof and the assumevalid state
    proof as prototypes.  The former is feasible to prove, while the
    latter still requires performance improvements to prove
    reasonable-sized blocks".  They are also working on validating
    complete blocks, including scripts, but say that they need at least
    a 40x speed up for that to be viable.

    In addition to state compression of the Bitcoin block chain, they
    also describe a protocol that can be used for a
    client-side-validation token protocol similar to that used for LL's
    Taproot Assets and some uses of RGB (see Newsletters [#195][news195
    taro] and [#247][news247 rgb]).  When Alice transfers to Bob some
    amount of a token, Bob needs to verify the history of every previous
    transfer of those specific tokens back to when they were created.
    In an ideal scenario, that history grows linearly with the number of
    transfers.  But if Bob wants to pay Carol an amount higher than he

>     received from Alice, he will need to combine the amount of tokens he
>     received from Alice with an amount of tokens he received in a

Reviewer: (IIUC)
```suggestion
    received from Alice, he will need to combine some tokens he
    received from Alice with some tokens he received in a
```

    different transaction.  Carol will then need to verify both the
    history going back through Alice and also the history of Bob's other
    tokens.  This is called a merge.  If merges happen often, the size
    of the history that needs to be verified approaches the size of the
    history of every transfer of that token between any users.  In
    comparative terms, in Bitcoin every full node verifies every
    transaction made by every user; in token protocols using client-side
    validation, that's not strictly required but eventually becomes
    effectively the case if merges are common.

>     That means a protocol which can compress the state of Bitcoin can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    That means a protocol that can compress the state of Bitcoin can
```

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

- [Core Lightning 23.05rc2][] is a release candidate for the next
  version of this LN implementation.

- [Bitcoin Core 23.2rc1][] is a release candidate for a maintenance
  release of the previous major version of Bitcoin Core.

- [Bitcoin Core 24.1rc3][] is a release candidate for a maintenance
  release of the current version of Bitcoin Core.

- [Bitcoin Core 25.0rc2][] is a release candidate for the next major
  version of Bitcoin Core.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo], and
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo].*

> - [Bitcoin Core #27021][] Implement Mini version of BlockAssembler to calculate mining scores FIXME:harding (hoping glozow or Xekyo will volunteer, though)

Reviewer: If neither of them is available, I could help out. (I don't know this PR as well as they do, but I know it fairly well.)

Reviewer 2: I can give it a spin.

    be performed in order to make both protocols usable in production,
    we find this to be encouraging progress towards a
    [feature][coinwitness] that Bitcoin developers have desired for over
    a decade.

## Waiting for confirmation #2: FIXME:glozow title

_A limited weekly series about transaction relay, mempool inclusion, and
mining transaction selection---including why Bitcoin Core has a more
restrictive policy than allowed by consensus and how wallets can use
that policy most effectively._

{% include specials/policy/en/02-cache-utility.md %}

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

FIXME:bitschmidty

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

- [Core Lightning 23.05rc2][] is a release candidate for the next
  version of this LN implementation.

- [Bitcoin Core 23.2rc1][] is a release candidate for a maintenance

>   release of the previous major version of Bitcoin Core.

Reviewer 2: Is meanwhile released: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/releases/tag/v23.2

- [Bitcoin Core 24.1rc3][] is a release candidate for a maintenance

>   release of the current version of Bitcoin Core.

Reviewer 2: Meanwhile released: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/releases/tag/v24.1

    transfer of those specific tokens back to when they were created.
    In an ideal scenario, that history grows linearly with the number of
    transfers.  But if Bob wants to pay Carol an amount higher than he
    received from Alice, he will need to combine some of the tokens he
    received from Alice with some tokens he received in a
    different transaction.  Carol will then need to verify both the
    history going back through Alice and also the history of Bob's other
    tokens.  This is called a merge.  If merges happen often, the size
    of the history that needs to be verified approaches the size of the
    history of every transfer of that token between any users.  In
    comparative terms, in Bitcoin every full node verifies every
    transaction made by every user; in token protocols using client-side
    validation, that's not strictly required but eventually becomes
    effectively the case if merges are common.

    That means a protocol that can compress the state of Bitcoin can
    also be adapted to compress the state of a token's history, even one
    where merges are common.  The authors describe how they would

>     accomplish that.  Their goal is to produce a proof that each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    accomplish that.  Their goal is to develop an algorithm that can produce a proof that each
```

  handling [PSBTs][topic psbt] and multisig configurations.

- **MuSig wallet Munstr released:**
  The beta [Munstr software][munstr github] uses the [nostr protocol][] in order
  to facilitate the rounds of communication required for signing [MuSig][topic musig]
  multisignature transactions.

- **CLN plugin manager Coffee released:**
  [Coffee][coffee github] is a CLN plugin manager that improves aspects of
  installation, configuration, dependency management, and upgrading of [CLN plugins][news22 plugins].

- **Electrum 4.4.3 released:**
  The [latest][electrum release notes] Electrum versions contain coin control
  improvements, a UTXO privacy analysis tool, and support for Short Channel
  Identifiers (SCIDs), among other fixes and improvements.

- **Trezor Suite adds coinjoin support:**
  The Trezor Suite software [announced][trezor blog] support for
  [coinjoins][topic coinjoin] that use the zkSNACKs coinjoin coordinator.

- **Lightning Loop defaults to MuSig2:**
  [Lightning Loop][news53 loop] now uses [MuSig2][topic musig] as the default
  swap protocol resulting in lower fees and better privacy.

- **Mutinynet announces new signet for testing:**

>   [Mutinynet][mutinynet blog] is a custom signet with 30 second block times that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [Mutinynet][mutinynet blog] is a custom signet with 30-second block times that
```
